[Term Entry] PHP String Function: html_entity_decode() (#3215)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/string-functions/terms/html-entity-decode/html-entity-decode.md

---
Title: 'html_entity_decode()'
Description: 'Converts HTML entities to their corresponding characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`html_entity_decode()`** function is the opposite of [`htmlentities()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/php/string-functions/html-entities) function in that it converts HTML entities in the string to their corresponding characters.

## Syntax

```pseudo
html_entity_decode(string,flags,encoding)
```

The `html_entity_decode()` function has one required parameter and three optional parameters:

- `$string`: Required. Specifies the `string` to convert.

> - `$flags`: Optional. Specifies how to handle quotes, invalid encoding and the used document type. Ex: ENT_QUOTES | ENT_SUBSTITUTE | ENT_HTML5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `$flags`: Optional. Specifies how to handle quotes, invalid encoding and the document type (e.g., `ENT_QUOTES` | `ENT_SUBSTITUTE` | `ENT_HTML5`).
```

> - `$encoding`: An optional argument defining the encoding used when converting characters. If omitted, `$encoding` defaults to the value of the default_charset configuration option. Although this argument is technically optional, you are highly encouraged to specify the correct value for your code if the `default_charset` configuration option may be set incorrectly for the given input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `$encoding`: An optional argument defining the encoding used when converting characters. If omitted, `$encoding` defaults to the value of the `default_charset` configuration option. Although this argument is technically optional, it is a best practice to specify the correct value if the `default_charset` configuration option may not apply for the given input.
```

Reviewer: first and second person pronouns are avoided in docs (I you we)

  - The available quote styles are:

    | Constant Name | Description|
    | ------------- | ----------------------------------- |

>     | ENT_COMPAT    | Default. html_entity_decode() function encodes only double quotes from `$string`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `ENT_COMPAT`    | (Default) Encodes only double quotes from `$string`|
```

Reviewer: Repeating the function here isn't really adding anything. Update the other lines as above

    | Constant Name | Description|
    | ------------- | --------------------------------- |
    | ENT_HTML5     | html_entity_decode() function handles code as HTML 5|
    | ENT_XHTML     | html_entity_decode() function handles code as XHTML|

  - Character sets that are supported:
    |Charset|Aliases|Description|
    |---|---|---|
    |ISO-8859-1|ISO8859-1|html_entity_decode() function works with Western European, Latin-1 charset.|
    |ISO-8859-15|ISO8859-15|html_entity_decode() function works with Western European, Latin-9. Adds the Euro sign, French and Finnish letters missing in Latin-1 (ISO-8859-1) charset.|
    |UTF-8||html_entity_decode() function works with ASCII compatible multi-byte 8-bit Unicode charset.|
    |cp866|ibm866, 866|html_entity_decode() function works with DOS-specific Cyrillic charset.|
    |cp1251|Windows-1251, win-1251, 1251|html_entity_decode() function works with Windows-specific Cyrillic charset.|
    |cp1252|Windows-1252, 1252|html_entity_decode() function works with Windows specific charset for Western European chatset.|
    |MacRoman||html_entity_decode() function works with charset that was used by Mac OS.|

 

>     > **Note:** Any other character sets are not recognized. The default encoding will be used instead and a warning will be emitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 > **Note:** Any other character sets are not recognized. The default encoding will be used instead and a warning will be emitted.
```

> 

Reviewer: remove empty line. There should never be more than one empty line between content

The `html_entity_decode()` function returns the decoded `$string`.

**Entities that will be decoded**:

|Characters|Convert to|Result|
|---|---|---|

> |\&amp;|becomes|& (ampersand)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`\&amp;`|becomes|`&` (ampersand)|
```

Reviewer: the middle column isn't really necessary here

|\&quot;|becomes|" (double quote)|
|\&#039;|becomes|' (single quote)|
|\&lt;|becomes|< (less than)|
|\&gt;|becomes|> (greater than)|

## Example

> The following example uses the `html_entity_decode()` function to convert the string `"&lt;b&gt;Welcome!!!&lt;/b&gt;"` to characters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `html_entity_decode()` function to convert the string `$str`:
```

---
Title: 'html_entity_decode()'
Description: 'Converts HTML entities to their corresponding characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`html_entity_decode()`** function is the opposite of **[htmlentities()](../htmlentities/htmlentities.md)** function in that it converts HTML entities in the string to their corresponding characters.

## Syntax

```pseudo
htmlentities(string,flags,encoding)
```

> The `html_entity_decode()` function has one required parameter and three optional parameters:

Author: @caupolicandiaz  I have some solutions like below and wonder what the most suitable solution for this case is.

+Should I just provide information about the string parameter, a little bit about $flag, $encoding, $double_encode then lead users into find more information from php.net website?

+Should I just specify 3-4 constant name with description for the $flag parameter, and 3-4 Charset with Aliases and description for the $encoding parameter? I just feel like the information is too long and I want to lead users to outside resources like w3school, or php.net for more information

+Should I keep all the details like I just wrote and just write the description in my way so that users can understand them easier?

    |ISO-8859-5|ISO8859-5|Little used cyrillic charset (Latin/Cyrillic).|
    |ISO-8859-15|ISO8859-15|Western European, Latin-9. Adds the Euro sign, French and Finnish letters missing in Latin-1 (ISO-8859-1).|
    |UTF-8||ASCII compatible multi-byte 8-bit Unicode.|
    |cp866|ibm866, 866|DOS-specific Cyrillic charset.|
    |cp1251|Windows-1251, win-1251, 1251|Windows-specific Cyrillic charset.|
    |cp1252|Windows-1252, 1252|Windows specific charset for Western European.|
    |KOI8-R|koi8-ru, koi8r|Russian.|
    |BIG5|950|Traditional Chinese, mainly used in Taiwan.|
    |GB2312|936|Simplified Chinese, national standard character set.|
    |BIG5-HKSCS||Big5 with Hong Kong extensions, Traditional Chinese.|
    |Shift_JIS|SJIS, SJIS-win, cp932, 932|Japanese|
    |EUC-JP|EUCJP, eucJP-win|Japanese|
    |MacRoman||Charset that was used by Mac OS.|
    |''||An empty string activates detection from script encoding (Zend multibyte), default_charset and current locale (see nl_langinfo() and setlocale()), in this order. Not recommended.|

    > **Note:** Any other character sets are not recognized. The default encoding will be used instead and a warning will be emitted.

> <br>

Reviewer: do not use `<br>` within the entry

The `html_entity_decode()` function returns the decoded `$string`.

<br>

## Changelog

| Version | Description                                                                   |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 8.1.0   | flags changed from ENT_COMPAT to ENT_QUOTES \| ENT_SUBSTITUTE \| ENT_HTML401. |
| 8.0.0   | encoding is nullable now.                                                     |

<br>

## Example

The following example uses the `html_entity_decode()` function to convert the string `"&lt;b&gt;Welcome!!!&lt;/b&gt;"` to characters:

```php
<?php

>   $str = "&lt;b&gt;Welcome!!!&lt;/b&gt;"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $str = "&lt;b&gt;Welcome!!!&lt;/b&gt;";
```

Reviewer: this example is also using the wrong function
